[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I feel that the natural
questioning that should be
arising when we're in states
of anything less than abundance
we've abandoned.
We've betrayed.
We've betrayed because
someone somewhere
has told us, don't question.
This is the path to freedom.
This is the path to happiness.
Stick to that, you
will follow it.
But it's not true.
It's just not true.
It's a bunch of lies that are
continuously being reinforced
by the people that gain
benefit from it, which there's
a lot of people who gain
benefit from a lot more people's
struggle and toil and emotional,
physical, and mental anguish
and unhealth.
>> No change really, I think,
is possible until you start
to examine why.
Why do I do what I do?
What is the pattern?
Where did that come from?
When did it start?
Why did it start?
Why did I choose
to believe about it
when that thing happened?
And why do I keep recreating it?
And is it what I want?
Is that what I want?
Do I want to be stuck in
that loop, vortex, prison
for the rest of my life, or
do I want something else?
>> Very few people have taken
the time to really go deep
and ask themselves, what is it
that would bring me the most
joy and happiness in my life?
Regardless of what
anybody else says,
regardless of what
the media says,
regardless of what my parents
said or your parents said
or your brothers or
sisters or friends,
what would it mean for me to
be happy and to be successful?
>> Some of us aren't even
aware that's what's happening.
So we go through tough
times where we don't even
see the lessons necessarily
because it's so painful.
We go through things
where we're on our own,
and we don't even
realize that those
are the times when
we really understood
perseverance and persistence
and self-reliance.
And it's really when we
actually pause at any moment
and we look and say, OK,
wherever I am right now,
even if is really tough, this
is chapter 4 in the book--
it's kind of like if you
didn't have this time,
it wouldn't make the
rest the book exciting.
So what does that mean for
chapter 8, for chapter 10--
so constantly looking ahead.
>> If one is stuck in life
and they're not feeling
the abundance that they
really yearn for in life,
there's probably some part
within ourselves that we have
abandoned questioning.
Not only abandoned it,
we may have questions
that have come up, but we
set it aside, push it down,
or, even worse, betrayed our
natural innate question of,
is this right?
Is it really right
that I am coming
home exhausted every day?
Is it really right that
I'm showing my children
that I need to break
my back, break my soul,
break my health so that
they can have a better life?
>> When I checked out of the
corporate world it was with no
grand plan whatsoever.
I just knew the corporate
world was not working for me.
I was a round peg
in a square hole
in terms of getting
anything done,
in terms of understanding the
politics, but also just this--
I never wanted to
lead a normal life.
I didn't want to lead the
life that I grew up in.
I grew up in you go to school,
you go to college, you get out,
and you work for a company for
40 or 45 years or whatever.
And it just never--
I didn't want that.
>> I remember the day that
I first enjoyed saying,
I don't know.
It was so freeing
to be able to say,
without trying to fudge or
hide or be someone else,
I don't know.
It's OK to not know
everything all the time
or to know it all in advance.
Now, there are
times where you do
need to know where
you're going, what
you're doing, what your
plan is, what your goal is.
But you have to also have
in there the ability to say,
I don't know,
because the truth is
there are plenty of
times when we don't know.
And don't fight that.
Own it.
Enjoy it.
Be present with that
moment of I don't know,
I don't have it all
figured out right now.
That's OK.
When the time comes that
you need that next piece,
it will be available to you.
Allow it to come to
you in the right time.
And for now, allow yourself
to just not know, and it's OK.
>> Do you think that the
caterpillar knows what
it's going to become when it
packs itself into its cocoon,
when it goes within,
when it retreats,
when it separates itself from
the world so it can become
something new,
separates and waits?
Often I think people
don't have patience.
They want that
transformation now.
They want to be what
they want to become now.
And they want to know what
they're going to become.
They want certainty.
They want to know what the
journey has in store for them.
But the caterpillar
doesn't know what's coming.
The caterpillar
doesn't know that he's
going to become a butterfly.
But he knows-- he
follows the imperative,
the natural imperative, and
he just does the next thing.
I'm building my cocoon,
and now I'm waiting,
and now I'm squirming,
and now I feel
constrained and constricted.
Now I'm poking my
head out of my cocoon.
Now I'm tapping on the
cocoon, breaking it open.
And now I'm stretching, and
now I'm letting my wings dry.
I don't even know what they
are, but they have to dry.
And now I'm flying.
I've never done that before.
And I don't know how I know
how to do it, but I do.
You'll be OK.
You might not necessarily
know what's coming.
But whatever it is that
you need will be there
when you need it and not before.
And it'll be OK.
>> One of things that I
believe is the characteristic
of a highly successful
person today,
one of the characteristics,
is adaptability to change.
>> It's really important
to let go of things,
to just be able to let go,
to not have so much judgment
on yourself, to just let go.
You know what?
We all make mistakes.
There is no perfect world.
Actually, life is actually
pretty messy, and that's OK.
Let it go.
When something doesn't
work out or you
don't do something
the way you'd hoped
you would or you wanted
to or you had expectations
of how you should be and it
didn't happen that way, let it
go.
Move forward.
When you do that, really
you open yourself up
to the next opportunity,
the next moment.
>> Today is new.
Today is fresh.
Today is a bed of possibility.
>> So when I got into that
witness place where I was
observing myself
and healing myself,
I saw that there may have been a
choice to have a negative story
about my life.
But at the same time, I felt
so much support around me
to grow and to heal.
And I was making the most of it.
I mean, I wasn't doing
something that I hated anymore.
I wasn't running scared.
I didn't care about anything
except that I had that day.
Like, to me, if
I had a day where
I knew I had a roof over my
head and I knew I had food,
I was in heaven.
I mean, there was not a person
on this planet that was more
happier, more grateful,
more appreciative
that I had just that day that
I could just heal and not
be forced to go out and be in
a cubicle and crunch numbers
and scream at people
and run scared.
I was the happiest
person in the world.
So I only saw opportunity.
I only saw blessing.
And I saw a chance to whatever
it was to overcome it.
And I only, just
at that time, got
an inkling of how much
healing could take place.
But it started to take on a
life of its own at that point.
>> I have back slides all
the time into a more fearful
mindset or a panicked
mindset or a narrow mindset.
It happens all the time.
And again, it's just like
a meditation practice.
I notice that I am
back in that space,
and I gently remind myself
to look at a larger picture
and to be still with it.
I have that happen all the time.
And it doesn't worry
me anymore because it
doesn't make me think
I'm not cut out for this.
It used to.
Now I just recognize it for what
it is, which is an old pattern.
Very often old patterns
will continue to come up
your whole life long.
It's learning that you
are not your old patterns.
They're just things
that come up,
and you can let them come and
go, and that is totally OK.
That's where the
difference lies.
>> Making the transition--
for a lot of people,
making the transition, well,
from scarcity to abundance is
a huge thing.
But, specifically, from living
within the so-called system,
living within a secure
job, well, I mean,
we've seen that get
blown up completely
because when I entered into
the corporate world whatever,
20 or 30 years ago,
that was the idea
is you start working
for a big company
and they take care
of you forever,
and so you were secure.
It's gone now.
People get laid off after
they're with a company.
I mean, people that started--
my peers in college who worked
for a company for 20 years
are getting laid
off left and right
even though they do good jobs.
That's just the reality.
So we know that
security in terms
of other companies hiring you
is completely out the window.
That's just gone.
But it was always
a facade anyways.
You see, even when
you had that security,
it was like the security
building this life that so
many people didn't want.
And now, for me--
I can just speak to my own
experience and the experience
I've see in so many of my
peers and even students.
The ultimate security
is having the capability
to create enormous value in
the world and get paid for it.
There is no security
like that security.
I mean, for me, I
literally know--
and I do have fairly
modest tastes,
so I don't want the
latest private jet.
I don't need to buy that,
but that I can literally
have anything I want at any
point I want because I have
that capability, I have
built up those strengths,
I've built up
those capabilities,
and I know I can create
enormous value for people.
And I know when I create
that value, I get paid.
So I know that sounds
really big and highfalutin,
but, I mean, on a very--
I mean, I'm in the
middle of buying
a new property for my
office, for my building,
for my company.
And it's going to be a lot of
money, like, a lot of money.
Like, it's going to cost two or
three times what my home costs.
But I know that I can just--
like that.
The next year, I could easily
make all that money and more
just by going out and
creating another project.
Where can I create more
value, boom, I do it,
and I bring that money in.
So this isn't 30,000 foot level.
This is very granular.
Once you have
those capabilities,
that is the security.
That is ultimate security.
Whether you're doing it for
yourself or for someone else--
I mean, you could
still work within a job
and build those capabilities
and have that ultimate freedom
because that's the only
security there is these days.
>> So there's a part of all
of us that is all powerful,
all knowing, and all loving, and
it's up to us to connect with
it.
But when we do you
connect with it,
we feel total
unconditional love.
It's the greatest
gift you can give
yourself is to spend time trying
to connect with that energy.
It will guide you.
It will support you.
It will energize
you, nourish you,
and you will feel so loved
and so supported in a way
that you could never
feel in the outside world
because no matter how much money
you have in the outside world,
the stock market could
collapse overnight.
The real estate market
could collapse overnight.
You could lose your job.
All these things could
happen overnight.
The monetary system
could collapse overnight.
But when you feel
this connection
to this internal
support, you know
you're always in the right
place at the right time,
you're doing exactly what
you're meant to be doing,
and you're always going to
get supported because that's
where your real
support comes from,
and you've got a
connection with it.
And so when you have that,
you feel a sense of support
that you can't possibly
feel from the outside world,
and that's my experience.
>> Part of abundance
is accepting change.
Very important that you are
ready for the changes that are
going to occur in your life.
If not, you'll just
flip back to lack
because there's too
many reminders around us
and especially if you've been
around a group of people,
and the issue is most
people don't get it.
Most people are in the system.
So you're just going
to go right back
to the way you were before if
you aren't ready for change.
So abundance and prosperity
means that you embrace change.
>> There's a lot of pressure
that we have in today's world
to have it all figured
out all the time.
You have to know what to do
and be polished all of the time
and have it all figured out.
But really that
doesn't serve you
because life is going to change
many times over and over again.
Even in the course of a
day, many things can happen.
Really, one key
thing to remember
is what is the next right
step, not the next 20 steps,
not having everything all
figured out in advance,
but what is the next indicated
step for me at this time?
How can I be authentic right
now, in alignment right now?
>> Two major things that have
helped me in my abundance,
two major things--
one is from the
Course in Miracles.
I carry it around.
It's a little card.
It says, "I can choose
peace instead of this."
So whatever situation
is, I know I can
choose peace instead of this.
And the other one is, when
I was really struggling,
that I am open to receive,
that I'm open to receive.
And those two statements
have really helped me a lot.
>> So I felt like I had to
uncondition myself is what I
felt like.
I felt like I had been
wound up with years
and years of programming and I
had to decompress and deprogram
myself.
And I lived in this place that
was 50 miles from anywhere.
It was in the middle of nowhere,
and I just decompressed.
And I did affirmations and
visualizations and meditations
and self-love and prayer and
guidance to just deprogram
and decompress all
the misinformation
that I had been
given my entire life.
>> I am what you might
call a spiritual pragmatist
or an optimistic pragmatist
because I believe sometimes you
just have to open yourself up to
that leap of faith and you have
to trust and you
have to be open,
and I also believe in keeping
your eyes open and staying
aware.
So sometimes I think people
make a leap of faith,
but they forget the keeping
your eyes open part.
There's two sides of it.
So taking a leap
of faith doesn't
mean you quit paying attention.
It doesn't mean that you close
your eyes and jump off a cliff.
It means that you
are open to what is
and you have a basic trust
that the universe is basically
a beautiful place, a positive
place, a source of goodness,
and at the same time you are
open to a good and useful path
for you.
>> And I believe that the
more we become aware of life,
the more we become aware
of what's really happening,
there's no shortage
of resources.
There's no shortage of tools.
There's no shortage of money.
There's no shortage of health.
There's no shortage of love.
There's no shortage of
anything in the universe.
And so if there's
no shortage, how do
we become one with abundance?
How do we become one with
there is more than enough
of everything for everybody?
>> In 1976, the year of
the American Bicentennial,
I walked in to a drug store to
buy vitamins and walked past
a magazine rack
that had a magazine.
I don't even know what
the magazine was now,
but it was the
picture on the cover
was the American flag
flying against a night sky
with fireworks in
the background.
And to me that said
freedom and opportunity.
That was the image of
And I picked that up, and
I looked at the picture
and was feeling this energy
of freedom and opportunity.
And as fate would have
it, I opened the magazine
thinking there's going to
be more stuff about freedom
and opportunity and I came
to that Henry David Thoreau
quote--
"the mass of men lead lives
of quiet desperation."
And it was the dichotomy
between those two,
that image on the cover
of freedom and opportunity
and "the mass of men lead
lives of quiet desperation,"
and for me at the
time that was true.
It was true of me and
everybody else I knew.
And that wide difference in
those two spaces created for me
and an effect, an
event for me that
was a significant emotional
event that was this
is not all right.
It's not all right
with me, not for me
or for anybody
else on the planet.
This is not all right.
And if that's true,
then that's a problem,
and that problem has--
every problem has a solution,
and I'm going to find it.
That set me on the
path that I've been on
since 1976 to find the answer.
So to move people
from quiet desperation
to joyous celebration, that's
where we should be living.
We should be living--
I want the statement to
be the massive humanity
live lives of
joyous celebration.
But there's only
one authentic power.
That's yours and mine and yours.
So if we're living
authentically,
we can't be following
anybody else's journey.
I did that for years.
I would read those
success books,
do this and do this and
this and follow this path,
and it's going down an
avenue, and suddenly you're
up against a brick wall, and
you're gone, oops, wrong path.
And you turn around,
and you go back,
and you try something else,
and you realize wrong path.
And although that path
was perfect for them
because it was their
authentic path,
it wasn't my authentic path.
And so part of that process,
part of authenticity
is learning your
path, and yours is
different from everybody
else's on the planet.
So if I don't know what I am
and who I am authentically,
if I don't know my own passions,
if I don't know my own mind,
if I don't expand
in my own direction,
then I'm doing
somebody else's path.
And I'm going to hit
some brick walls.
I'm going to run down a path
and waste a lot of years
and get to the end and
go, oops, wrong path,
because it wasn't mine.